README.md, before:

variational-depth-from-focus
============================

CUDA implementation of: 
Moeller, Michael, et al. [Variational Depth from Focus Reconstruction](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1408.0173v2.pdf). arXiv preprint arXiv:1408.0173v2 (2014).

>This paper deals with the problem of reconstructing a depth map from a sequence of differently focused images, also known as depth from focus or shape from focus. We propose to state the depth from focus problem as a variational problem including a smooth but nonconvex data fidelity term, and a convex nonsmooth regularization, which makes the method robust to noise and leads to more realistic depth maps. Additionally, we propose to solve the nonconvex minimization problem with a linearized alternating directions method of multipliers (ADMM), allowing to minimize the energy very efficiently. A numerical comparison to classical methods on simulated as well as on real data is presented.

### Dependencies 
CMake, CUDA, OpenCV

#### MacOSX (10.9, 10.10)
We installed OpenCV 2.4.10 and CMake 3 using brew

make sure brew is installed correctly
```sh
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
brew doctor
```

install cmake and opencv
```sh
brew install cmake
brew tap homebrew/science
brew install opencv
```

Install CUDA 7.0, which comes with C++11 support and is compiled with libc++ which is the default on OSX since 10.9. This really simplifies the installation, because prior to 7.0, CUDA was built with libstdc++, so the OpenCV dependency would have to be built with libstdc++ as well (e.g. by passing the --with-cuda flag).

http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/7_0/Prod/local_installers/cuda_7.0.29_mac.pkg


#### Linux
TODO


#### Windows
TODO


### Installation
Now we are ready to build our code
```sh
cd ~/projects
git clone https://github.com/adrelino/variational-depth-from-focus.git
cd variational-depth-from-focus
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```


### Execution

#### Run with included synthetic sample sequence
```sh
./main
```

#### More sequences on real data
* http://www.sayonics.com/sources/books_00.zip
* http://www.sayonics.com/sources/books_02.zip
* http://www.sayonics.com/sources/books_05.zip

unzip them and then run with the -dir option:
```sh
./main -dir <DIR>
```

Commit message:

adds installation instructions for linux

README.md, after:

variational-depth-from-focus
============================

CUDA implementation of: 
Moeller, Michael, et al. [Variational Depth from Focus Reconstruction](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1408.0173v2.pdf). arXiv preprint arXiv:1408.0173v2 (2014).

>This paper deals with the problem of reconstructing a depth map from a sequence of differently focused images, also known as depth from focus or shape from focus. We propose to state the depth from focus problem as a variational problem including a smooth but nonconvex data fidelity term, and a convex nonsmooth regularization, which makes the method robust to noise and leads to more realistic depth maps. Additionally, we propose to solve the nonconvex minimization problem with a linearized alternating directions method of multipliers (ADMM), allowing to minimize the energy very efficiently. A numerical comparison to classical methods on simulated as well as on real data is presented.

### Dependencies 
CMake, CUDA, OpenCV

#### MacOSX (10.9, 10.10)
We installed OpenCV 2.4.10 and CMake 3 using brew

make sure brew is installed correctly
```sh
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
brew doctor
```

install cmake and opencv
```sh
brew install cmake
brew tap homebrew/science
brew install opencv
```

Install CUDA 7.0, which comes with C++11 support and is compiled with libc++ which is the default on OSX since 10.9. This really simplifies the installation, because prior to 7.0, CUDA was built with libstdc++, so the OpenCV dependency would have to be built with libstdc++ as well (e.g. by passing the --with-cuda flag).

http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/7_0/Prod/local_installers/cuda_7.0.29_mac.pkg


#### Linux
Our code was tested under Arch Linux with OpenCV 2.4.10, CMake 3.2.1 and CUDA 7.0.
It should compile and run successfully under your favorite linux distribution if it provides the above mentioned dependencies.

Please use the appropriate package manager of your distribution to install these packages; below is an example
for Arch Linux

```sh
# pacman -S opencv
# pacman -S cmake
# pacman -S cuda
```

#### Windows
TODO


### Installation
Now we are ready to build our code
```sh
cd ~/projects
git clone https://github.com/adrelino/variational-depth-from-focus.git
cd variational-depth-from-focus
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```


### Execution

#### Run with included synthetic sample sequence
```sh
./main
```

#### More sequences on real data
* http://www.sayonics.com/sources/books_00.zip
* http://www.sayonics.com/sources/books_02.zip
* http://www.sayonics.com/sources/books_05.zip

unzip them and then run with the -dir option:
```sh
./main -dir <DIR>
```
